# Master-SemesterProject
This thesis addresses both waste prevention and creates the opportunity to prevent new material from becoming waste. The aim of the project is to contribute to the objective of reducing food waste globally and take parts to create maximum value from food being wasted. The purpose of the project is to develop a model and illustrate a framework of action required in existing ICT tools that are strategically agreed upon across all stage of the food supply chain with robust policy and shared collaborative participation and supported by science and evidence-based tools which allow predetermined value-effective solutions and transformation towards more sustainable and secure food system. 
 
This project identifies the roles of ICT tools and the missing functionality of existing apps that affect changing consumer behavior for responsible food consumption. It identifies the potential functionalities that the ICT sector could use to map its contribution to reducing food waste while also providing a deep analysis of the linkage between the ICT sector and a selection of SDGs. This is supported by the literature review with inventory analysis of existing ICT tools and a detailed case study with carefully conducted a focus group survey. Furthermore, based on findings a business model was presented with the functionality and features that affect consumers' behavior towards food consumption and food waste reduction. This project concludes with a set of recommendations made to the industries, local and public communities to use missing functionality of ICT tools and innovation and make meaningful contributions across sustainable development areas.
